psom_overview.md, before:

The pipeline system for [Octave](http://www.gnu.org/software/octave/) and [Matlab](http://www.mathworks.com/) (PSOM) is a lightweight library designed to script complex multistage data processing, or "pipelines". PSOM is an open-source software distributed under [MIT license](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

#Features
PSOM offers generic solutions for the main tasks involved in pipeline scripting. Please read the [tutorial](how_to_use_psom.html) and [guidelines](pipeline_coding_guidelines.html) to learn how to script pipelines with PSOM. 
 
> * Automatically detect and execute jobs that can run in parallel, using multiple CPUs or within a distributed computing environment.
> * Generate log files and keep track of the pipeline execution. These logs are detailed enough to fully reproduce the analysis.
> * Handle job failures : successful completion of jobs is checked and failed jobs can be restarted.
> * Handle updates of the pipeline : change options or add jobs and let PSOM figure out what to reprocess !

#Installation
PSOM 1.0.2 is at a stable, production stage, and has been tested under Linux, Windows and Mac OSX. To install PSOM, click the download button, extract the archive in a folder, and add that folder to your matlab or octave search path. 
You're basically done ! Feel free to bundle PSOM in your own projects.
> * How to [configure](psom_configuration.html) PSOM for your production environment.
> * All [releases](https://github.com/SIMEXP/psom/releases) can be found on github.
> * If a feature is missing, fork [PSOM](https://github.com/SIMEXP/psom) on github !

# Reference
If you use PSOM in a publication, please consider citing the companion [paper](http://www.frontiersin.org/neuroinformatics/10.3389/fninf.2012.00007/abstract), published in Frontiers in Neuroinformatics.
>P. Bellec, S. Lavoie-Courchesne, P. Dickinson, J. Lerch, A. Zijdenbos, A. C. Evans. The pipeline system for Octave and Matlab (PSOM): a lightweight scripting framework and execution engine for scientific workflows. Front. Neuroinform. (2012) 6:7 doi: 10.3389/fninf.2012.00007

#Contributions
PSOM is maintained by [Pierre Bellec](http://simexp-lab.org/brainwiki/doku.php?id=pierrebellec) and the [SIMEXP lab](http://simexp-lab.org), located at "[Unité de Neuroimagerie Fonctionnelle](http://www.unf-montreal.ca/)" (UNF), "[Centre de Recherche de l'Institut de Gériatrie de Montréal](http://www.criugm.qc.ca/)" (CRIUGM), "[Département d'Informatique et de Recherche Opérationnelle](http://www.iro.umontreal.ca/)" (DIRO), [Université de Montréal](http://www.umontreal.ca/). Contributors include Mr Sebastien Lavoie-Courchesne, [Mr Sebastian Urchs](https://github.com/surchs) and Mr [Christian Dansereau](https://github.com/cdansereau).
>The project was started by Pierre Bellec when he worked as a post-doctoral fellow in the lab of [Alan Evans](http://www.bic.mni.mcgill.ca/~alan/) at [McGill University](http://www.mcgill.ca/), Canada. 
>Core ideas have been inspired by the Poor Man's Pipeline (PMP) project developed by Jason Lerch, which was itself based on [RPPL](http://www.bic.mni.mcgill.ca/~jason/rppl/rppl.html) by Alberto Jimenez and Alex Zijdenbos. 

![UDM and CRIUGM](logos_criugm_udm.png)

#News
##September, 12th, 2014
Release of this website.

##July, 12th, 2014
The repository of the PSOM project was moved from google code to github: https://github.com/SIMEXP/psom

Commit message:

Greatly simplified the tutorial, and removed most of the "coding guidelines" section (the tab has actually disappeared).

psom_overview.md, after:

The pipeline system for [Octave](http://www.gnu.org/software/octave/) and [Matlab](http://www.mathworks.com/) (PSOM) is a lightweight library designed to script complex multistage data processing, or "pipelines". PSOM is an open-source software distributed under [MIT license](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

#Features
PSOM offers generic solutions for the main tasks involved in pipeline scripting. Please read the [tutorial](how_to_use_psom.html) and [guidelines](pipeline_coding_guidelines.html) to learn how to script pipelines with PSOM. 
 
> * Automatically detect and execute jobs that can run in parallel, using multiple CPUs or within a distributed computing environment.
> * Generate log files and keep track of the pipeline execution. These logs are detailed enough to fully reproduce the analysis.
> * Handle job failures : successful completion of jobs is checked and failed jobs can be restarted.
> * Handle updates of the pipeline : change options or add jobs and let PSOM figure out what to reprocess !

#Installation
PSOM 1.0.2 is at a stable, production stage, and has been tested under Linux, Windows and Mac OSX. PSOM can handle smoothly pipelines with thousands of jobs involving tens of thousands of files, and distribute those amongst hundreds of processors. To install PSOM, click the download button, extract the archive in a folder, and add that folder to your matlab or octave search path. 
You're basically done ! Feel free to bundle PSOM in your own projects.
> * You will need either the Matlab biograph or the [graphviz](http://www.graphviz.org/) toolbox in order to visualize dependency graphs.
> * Check the tutorial to [configure](psom_configuration.html) PSOM for your production environment.
> * All [releases](https://github.com/SIMEXP/psom/releases) can be found on github.
> * If a feature is missing, fork [PSOM](https://github.com/SIMEXP/psom) on github !

# Reference
If you use PSOM in a publication, please consider citing the companion [paper](http://www.frontiersin.org/neuroinformatics/10.3389/fninf.2012.00007/abstract), published in Frontiers in Neuroinformatics.
>P. Bellec, S. Lavoie-Courchesne, P. Dickinson, J. Lerch, A. Zijdenbos, A. C. Evans. The pipeline system for Octave and Matlab (PSOM): a lightweight scripting framework and execution engine for scientific workflows. Front. Neuroinform. (2012) 6:7 doi: 10.3389/fninf.2012.00007

#Contributions
PSOM is maintained by [Pierre Bellec](http://simexp-lab.org/brainwiki/doku.php?id=pierrebellec) and the [SIMEXP lab](http://simexp-lab.org), located at "[Unité de Neuroimagerie Fonctionnelle](http://www.unf-montreal.ca/)" (UNF), "[Centre de Recherche de l'Institut de Gériatrie de Montréal](http://www.criugm.qc.ca/)" (CRIUGM), "[Département d'Informatique et de Recherche Opérationnelle](http://www.iro.umontreal.ca/)" (DIRO), [Université de Montréal](http://www.umontreal.ca/). Contributors include Mr Sebastien Lavoie-Courchesne, [Mr Sebastian Urchs](https://github.com/surchs) and Mr [Christian Dansereau](https://github.com/cdansereau).
>The project was started by Pierre Bellec when he worked as a post-doctoral fellow in the lab of [Alan Evans](http://www.bic.mni.mcgill.ca/~alan/) at [McGill University](http://www.mcgill.ca/), Canada. 
>Core ideas have been inspired by the Poor Man's Pipeline (PMP) project developed by Jason Lerch, which was itself based on [RPPL](http://www.bic.mni.mcgill.ca/~jason/rppl/rppl.html) by Alberto Jimenez and Alex Zijdenbos. 

![UDM and CRIUGM](logos_criugm_udm.png)

#News
##September, 12th, 2014
Release of this website.

##July, 12th, 2014
The repository of the PSOM project was moved from google code to github: https://github.com/SIMEXP/psom
